YUKUN ZHANG | RESUME
===================

#### SUMMARY

Creative data scientist, M.Sc, B.Sc in Statistics. Expertise of machine learning lies in clustering, classification, regression, mixture models, etc. Statistical analyses techniques are in the area of predictive analytics, survival analysis, longitudinal analysis, multivariate analysis, and power calculations, etc.

Certified SAS Advanced Programmer for SAS 9. Data-driven solution and R package developer. Author of packages [PAactivPAL](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/PAactivPAL/PAactivPAL.pdf)
 and [PASenseWear](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/PASenseWear/index.html). Strong proficiency in big data storage and predictive visual analytic using R, ggplot, Tableau, SAS, Python, SQL, Oracle, VBA, etc.

#### EMPLOYMENT EXPERIENCE

**Statistician**, 2015-Present

University of Calgary, Calgary    

- Providing data science consultation for clinicians in the methods of statistical analysis and interpretation of rich structured and highly unstructured medical record.

- Involving in architecture and implementation of cutting edge visual analytic solutions for physical activity data. Lead the design and implementation of new components and publish R packages with the
fundamental units of reproducible codes.

**Statistical Research Analyst**, 2014-2015

University of Calgary, Calgary

- Conducted advanced statistical analysis, simulation study and data management using R/SAS/SQL. Supervised co-workers within the research team regarding data management, data analysis and programming issues. Communicated with clinicians to translate ideas and provide consultation for study design and decision making.

- Presented research outcomes to audience with different backgrounds in departmental seminars and international conferences. Prepared technical report of data analyses for scientific presentations and research manuscripts submitted to peer-reviewed journal.

**Data Analyst**, 2013

Alberta Health Services, Calgary

- Involved in the project evaluated new biomarkers to identify patients who might at decreased risk of dying from lung cancer.

- Carried out all aspects of the statistical analyses from cleaning the clinical data set to recommending final models with the guidance of Dr. Karen Kopciuk, Research Scientist and Statistician.

- Applied Cox proportional hazard model to the data and selected the final multivariate models with the help of non-parametric methods (e.g. Kaplan Meier), multi-state models with analyses carried out using SAS and R. Wrote a non-technical summary of our finding from the preliminary, descriptive and regression modeling phases as well as model evaluation.

**Graduate Teaching Assistant** , 2012 - 2014

University of Calgary, Calgary

- Illustrated statistical tests, taught R programming and led students to read research papers. Cooperated with the instructor by giving constructive feedback to improve a newly created syllabus. Interacted tactfully to guide and encourage the students on their academic pursuit.    

####  [PUBLICATIONS](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=k_QDUd8AAAAJ&hl=zh-CN)
**PACKAGES**

- [*PAactivPAL*](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/PAactivPAL/PAactivPAL.pdf)
Summarize physical activity (Mets, Proportion, Total, etc.) in the given time period from accelerometer data.

- [*PASenseWear*](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=k_QDUd8AAAAJ&hl=zh-CN)
Provide summary table of daily physical activity and per-person/grouped heat map for accelerometer data from SenseWear Armband.

**PAPERS**

- ***Yukun Zhang***, Xuewen Lu, and Anthony F. Desmond. Variable selection in a log linear birnbaum saunders regression model for high-dimensional survival data via the elastic-net and stochastic em. Technometrics, 58(3):383-392, 2016


- Haocheng Li, ***Yukun Zhang***, Raymond J. Carroll, Sarah Kozey Keadle, Joshua N. Sampson and Charles E. Matthews. A Joint Modeling and Estimation Method for Multivariate Longitudinal Data with Mixed Types of Responses to Analyze Physical Activity Data Generated by Accelerometers. Statistics in Medicine. 2017; 1-13

- Tolulope T Sajobi, ***Yukun Zhang***, Bijoy K Menon, Mayank Goyal, Andrew M Demchuk, Joseph P Broderick, and Michael D Hill. Effect size estimates for the escape trial proportional odds regression versus other statistical methods. Stroke, 46(7):1800-1805, 2015


#### EDUCATION
**Master of Science (M.Sc), Statistics**, 2012-2014

**University of Calgary**, Calgary


- Conference Presenter: Annual Meeting (41st in Edmonton, 2013, 42nd in Toronto, 2014 and 43rd in Halifax, 2015) of the Statistical Society of Canada

- Departmental Graduate Assistant Teaching Excellence Award Winner, 2013

- Statistical Society of Canada Travel Award, 2013

**SAS Certificated Advanced Programmer by SAS**, 2013

- Skilled in advanced DATA step programming, macro processing, accessing data using SQL and advanced programming techniques

**Bachelor of Science (B.Sc), Statistics**, 2008-2012

**Southeast University (Nanjing Institute of Technology)**, Nanjing

- Honorable Mention of the Interdisciplinary Contest in Modeling (ICM, USA), from the Consortium for Mathematics and Its Application (COMAP, USA), 2011


----------
✴ Reference available upon request

